this is the video for the origami crane
the first step for the traditional
origami crane is a diagonal fold so
we're gonna start with the color side up
and then go ahead and fold bottom corner
up to the top quarter make sure that
it's nice and lined up so it's very
precise we're not trying to go super
fast just try and get it exactly on that
spot and then slide your finger down out
to the corner and then out to the other
corner open it back up and then we're
gonna do the other diagonal fold so
again take the bottom bring it up
everything nice and lined up just like
that
and open it back up so you have a nice
plus sign with your creases flip the
paper over and now we're going to do two
book folds it's going to take the bottom
edge bring it up to the top edge and
again make sure that it's not askew off
to the side and I'll try and get it nice
and even across the top and once you do
crease down just like that
and then open it up and do the other
book fold as well just like that now
once you have that last one go ahead and
leave that crease down and pick up the
model a little bit what we're going to
do is if you pinch right here and right
here near the top of the corners what
we're going to do is we're going to
rotate the model up just like this you
see how we're getting all four corners
of the paper are going to come up and
touch each other right at the top and
then you see how we've got these extra
flaps we can squash those flaps down and
this doesn't use any new creases we
haven't made anything new this is just
using all of the folds that we already
have to create what's called a square
base or a preliminary base and the
important thing about the orientation of
the base is to make sure that these
flaps that we have open here they have
to be towards you so get them and make
sure that they're not up at the top but
that those extra flaps are pointed
towards you not off to the side but
right down
at you next we're going to do two kite
folds we're going to take these two
bottom edges that lead down to the open
flap and we're going to fold them into
the middle of the paper just right on
that middle line right all the way down
to on the left-hand side and also on the
right hand side just like that and then
once we've done both of those go ahead
and fold down this top triangle right
here it's going to go all the way across
this line that's the crease line that
we're going to use we fold that triangle
down just like that
next flip the whole thing over with this
make sure that this triangle flap this
is on the bottom underneath and now
we're gonna do those two kite folds
we're gonna do those again on this side
just like that now once you've done
those two kite folds go ahead and open
those back up those are what we call
preliminary folds that we're going to
use those creases to use another fold
later so now what's going to happen is
we're going to take one flap of paper
just one there's a couple there's a
couple of different spots there but just
open up one flap of paper and what we
want to do is we want to flatten it out
and pick it up as high as we can and
when we pick it up pretty high what's
going to happen is these two outside
flaps are going to want to work their
way into the center and we've already
made that kite fold when we folded this
over we already sort of created that
fold right in there so go ahead and let
the paper do that we're going to pick
the paper up all the way up to the top
and pull in these two edges this is
called a petal fold just like this
you see how that flattens out nicely
next flip the paper over and we do the
same thing here so open up that triangle
open up these two flaps fold this guy
back down we're going to pick up this
panel right here and do another petal
fold pick it all the way up to the top
it should match the one behind it just
like that and this is called the crane
base now once we have the crane base
make sure that you have these two slits
right here at the bottom these are going
to be our tail in our head what we're
going to do is we're going to do two
kite folds we're going to thin this
again so go ahead and take these two
edges and bring those into the middle
and make sure that the edges are there
pointing down towards here so don't fold
them where they go up like that they're
down towards the openings on the left
side and the right side flip it over and
do it one more time now we've got these
two flaps what we're going to do is
we're going to fold them both up as far
as they'll go and out to the side at
whatever angle you want if you want the
head to be a little bit far closer
reaching a little bit forward or the
tail to be a little bit farther back but
whatever angle you want go ahead and
fold them up and now fold them back down
we're going to use that crease that we
made to do what's called an inside
reverse fold and inside reverse fold is
instead of taking this flap in front or
even if we were to fold it behind we're
going to open this panel up right here
there's two panels right there open them
up and we're going to fold this in the
middle of them we're going to bring it
up inside the middle and what happens is
this this back spine of the paper right
here is going to reverse its crease so
now it switched around you see how it's
gone in the middle of the paper it's an
inside reverse fold when we do that on
both sides and try to do it on the
creases we just made when we folded this
up try to use those creases
and once we do that you can figure out
which side you wanna be the head which I
do wanna be the tail I want to use this
guy for the head and what's going to
happen is I'm going to make another
inside reverse fold just sort of open it
up and fold the beak down like that it's
again it's been folded on the inside of
the paper like that fold down each of
the wings that is the origami crane